---
layout: post
title: "CodeDay SV 2014"
description: ""
category: "Event"
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### The project

I won most fun hack for making StrobeSpark/Beatmap. 
StrobeSpark is a hardware hack that uses sparkcore, a wifi-controlled arduino, to make an LED blink at a constant rate. This rate was controlled by a RESTFUL api, compiled into firmware. The hack involved syncing that rate of blinking to the BPM of a song...the second part of the hack. It requested a 30 second mp3 file from the Spotify API, and then I used some native javascript parsing to get an estimate of the BPM. That number was transmitted through a simple POST request, and plugged into `60000/BPM/2` to make the LED flash. Strobelight. Bam.

### Links

[Github Link](http://github.com/wilzh40/StrobeSpark)

[Demo Link](http://wilzh40.github.io/StrobeSpark/)

### Best hackathon ever

I honestly love Codeday: an event catered to beginners with the sole focus of having fun, with no API-pandering nor prizes. So my goal was simple:have the most fun possible.

### Some Highlights

- I learned how to play the Ukelele

- I got a sparkcore worth 40 dollars for free, after building something awesome with it.

- That something awesome won me "Most fun hack."


### Play by play

Copied from evernote.



    *** Log ***
     Kickoff ended
     Started to work
     Checked out smart things hub, presence 2, spark core with drivers license
     I want to make turn down for what
     2:57
     
     Started polishing BAE, working on the pause menu
     5:00 
     
     Finished polishing the pause menu, added ease-in ease out, added buttons and wire framing
     5:18
     
     Added a death screen also ease in ease out
     Got a spare sparkcore!
     Danish and Keshav came, p dope
     6:09
     
     They went to get dinner (keshav/danish)
     POLISHED THE FUCK OUT OF GAME OVER SCENE, added it to BAE, pusherino’d
     7:00
     
     Alfred is figuring out spark core with LEDS
     we got LEDS from our boy brian
     Finished the pause screen, next adding toggle sound functionality
     7:32
     
     Five guys burgers came!
     8:02
     
     Went to safeways w/Keshav and Alfred, bought a tub of Breyer’s strawberry ice cream. We were heroes when we returned
     Bought some veggies to counteract that shit
     8:49
     
     Discovered 420.moe
     Working on the mute options
     9:20 
     
     Finished Mute options, now working on sounds
     Added a thud sound to button click
     10:46
     
     Added some tweaks
     Learned Ukelele
     11:41 
     
     Took 30 minute nap
     12:21 
     
     Moved to Gemini room with speaker
     Started spark core
     12:32 
     
     Installed spark core, getting started with IDE
     2:44
     
     SUCCESFULLY got the LED blink to BPM through a curl call
     
     curl https://api.spark.io/v1/devices/54ff72066667515141081567/getBPM \  -d access_token=71177b5e2ea528b6f84f2729f0017aba9071b5e0 \
     -d "args=“200”
     3:00 Started node.js app
     5:05
     
     Ate carrots
     Added a beat detection core 
     5:16
     
     GOT THE LED TO WORK THROUGH d0
     
      spark call wilimson getBPM 800      

     5:38
     
     Now just migrating to node.js to do an api call
     6:34 
     
     IT WAS A POST REQUEST ALL ALONG
     6:45 
     
     After some help form sayan it works
     


            $.ajax({
            type: 'POST',
            url: 'https://api.spark.io/v1/devices/54ff72066667515141081567/getBPM?access_token=71177b5e2ea528b6f84f2729f0017aba9071b5e0',
            crossDomain: true,
            data: {"arg":"55"},
            dataType: 'json',
            success: function(responseData, textStatus, jqXHR) {
            var value = responseData.someKey;
            console.log(value);
            },
            error: function (responseData, textStatus, errorThrown) {
            alert('POST failed.');
            }
            });


     7:36

 
     Finished doing little front-end bits
     9:47
     
     Watched koorra and officially given up on life
     10:52
     
     Presented
     Crashed for 1 hour
     12:32
     
     Tearful goodbyes
